TECHNIQUES: []

BODY:
Apache ActiveMQ Exploit Leads to LockBit Ransomware - The DFIR Report View the latest DFIR Report X Public Reports Products Products Overview Threat Intel Threat Feed Private DFIR Reports All Intel Active Defense DFIR Labs Case Artifacts - Detection Pack AI Training Ground - bruteratel From a Single Click: How Lunar Spider Enabled a Near Two-Month Intrusion Read More - dragonforce Blurring the Lines: Intrusion Shows Connection With Three Major Ransomware Gangs Read More Services Services Overview Training Threat Hunting - Professional Services Integration CTI Program Advisory Incident Response Playbook Company About us Contact Us Collaboration Careers Analysts Access DFIR Labs Get in Touch Public Reports Products Products Overview Threat Intel Threat intel Overview Threat Feed Private DFIR Reports All Intel Active Defense DFIR Labs Case Artifacts Detection Pack AI Training Ground Services Service Overview Training Threat Hunting Professional Services Integration CTI Program Advisory Incident Response Playbook Company Company Overview About us Contact Us Careers Analyst SQL Brute Force Leads to BlueSky Ransomware From OneNote to RansomNote: An Ice Cold Intrusion lockbit Apache ActiveMQ Exploit Leads to LockBit Ransomware February 23, 2026 Key Takeaways A threat actor exploited CVE-2023-46604 on an internet-facing Apache ActiveMQ server. Despite being evicted after the initial intrusion, they successfully breached the same server on a second occasion 18 days later. After compromising the server, the threat actor used Metasploit, possibly along with Meterpreter, to perform post-exploitation activities. These activities included escalating privileges, accessing LSASS process memory, and moving laterally across the network. After regaining access following their eviction, the threat actor swiftly transitioned to deploying ransomware. They leveraged credentials extracted during their previous breach to deploy LockBit ransomware via RDP. Although the ransomware binary aligns with LockBit signatures, we believe it was crafted using the leaked LockBit builder because the ransom note had been modified, and communication methods relied exclusively on the Session messaging service. An audio version of this report can be found on Spotify , Apple , YouTube , Audible , & Amazon . Case Summary This intrusion began in mid-February 2024 after a threat actor exploited a vulnerability (CVE-2023-46604) on an exposed Apache ActiveMQ server. The threat actor was able to perform remote code execution (RCE) by using a Java Spring class and a custom Java Spring bean configuration XML file. The malicious XML contained a command that downloaded a payload from a remote server using the Windows CertUtil utility. The payload was successfully downloaded and executed on the beachhead host. This payload turned out to be a Metasploit stager. Around 40 minutes after the initial exploit, we observed the threat actor s next actions. The first evidence of the GetSystem command was obs