TECHNIQUES: ['T1134']

BODY:
An Investigation Into Years of Undetected Operations Targeting High-Value Sectors Menu Tools ATOMs Security Consulting About Us Under Attack? Threat Research Center Threat Research Malware Malware An Investigation Into Years of Undetected Operations Targeting High-Value Sectors 16 min read Related Products Advanced DNS Security Advanced Threat Prevention Advanced URL Filtering Advanced WildFire Cloud-Delivered Security Services Cortex Cortex XDR Cortex XSIAM Next-Generation Firewall Next-Generation Firewall VM series By: Tom Fakterman Published: March 6, 2026 Categories: Malware Threat Research Tags: China CL-UNK-1068 DLL Sideloading Fast Reverse Proxy ScanPortPlus Xnote Share Executive Summary Since at least 2020, we have observed a cluster of activity targeting high-value organizations across South, Southeast and East Asia. The attacks focus on critical sectors such as aviation, energy, government, law enforcement, pharmaceutical, technology and telecommunications. Unit 42 is tracking this ongoing, previously undocumented activity as CL-UNK-1068. We designate the term UNK to clusters of activity whose affiliation with either nation-state or cybercrime activity we have not yet determined. We assess with high confidence that the attackers behind CL-UNK-1068 are a Chinese threat actor. This assessment is based on the origin of their tools, linguistic artifacts in configuration files, and their consistent, longstanding targeting of critical infrastructure in Asia. We assess with moderate-to-high confidence that the primary objective of the attackers is cyberespionage, although we cannot fully rule out the possibility of cybercriminal motivation at this time. Through a long period of close observation, we identified the specific tools and techniques that define this group. Our attribution of this activity to CL-UNK-1068 is done in accordance with Unit 42???s attribution framework . We provide a detailed analysis of the attack patterns and methods that we identified in our investigation into this cluster of activity. Palo Alto Networks customers are better protected from the threats described through the following products and services: Advanced URL Filtering and Advanced DNS Security Next-Generation Firewall (NGFW) with Advanced Threat Prevention Advanced WildFire Cortex XDR and XSIAM If you think you might have been compromised or have an urgent matter, contact the Unit 42 Incident Response team . Related Unit 42 Topics China , CL-UNK-1068, DLL Sideloading , Backdoors Technical Analysis Overview We provide a detailed analysis of the tool set deployed by the attackers behind CL-UNK-1068 across different intrusion campaigns since 2020. While these attacks demonstrate a consistent set of techniques and procedures (TTPs), it is important to note that not every tool was used in every observed intrusion. Our analysis reveals a multi-faceted tool set that includes custom malware, modified open-source utilities and living-off-the-land binaries (LOLBINs). T